style: apply /style-guide pass to models/tables (#2725)
wandb/docs: models/tables/evaluate-models.mdx

description: Learn how to evaluate machine learning models using W&B Weave and Tables.
---

This page shows you two complementary ways to evaluate models tracked in W&B: use W&B Weave for LLM and GenAI evaluations, and use W&B Tables for prediction analysis across runs and epochs.

## Evaluate models with Weave

> [W&B Weave](/weave) is a purpose-built toolkit for evaluating LLMs and GenAI applications. It provides evaluation capabilities including scorers, judges, and detailed tracing to help you understand and improve model performance. Weave integrates with W&B Models so you can evaluate models stored in your Model Registry.

Reviewer: Nit: I think we prefer just Registry.
```suggestion
[W&B Weave](/weave) is a purpose-built toolkit for evaluating LLMs and GenAI applications. It provides evaluation capabilities including scorers, judges, and detailed tracing to help you understand and improve model performance. Weave integrates with W&B Models so you can evaluate models stored in W&B Registry.
```

Author: Changed to "W&B Registry" and scrubbed the redundant "W&B Models"/"Model Registry" mentions elsewhere on the page.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/weave/evals.png" alt="Weave evaluation dashboard showing model performance metrics and traces"  />
</Frame>

### Key features for model evaluation

Weave provides the following capabilities for model evaluation:

* **Scorers and judges**: Pre-built and custom evaluation metrics for accuracy, relevance, coherence, and more.
* **Evaluation datasets**: Structured test sets with ground truth for systematic evaluation.
* **Model versioning**: Track and compare different versions of your models.
* **Detailed tracing**: Debug model behavior with complete input/output traces.
* **Cost tracking**: Monitor API costs and token usage across evaluations.

> ### Evaluate a model from W&B Registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Evaluate a model from Registry
```
No longer the first mention if you take earlier suggestion

Author: Dropped "W&B"; heading is now "### Evaluate a model from Registry".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> Download a model from W&B Models Registry and evaluate it using Weave:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download a model from Registry and evaluate it using Weave:
```

Author: Changed to "Download a model from Registry and evaluate it using Weave:".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

## Evaluate models with Weave

[W&B Weave](/weave) is a purpose-built toolkit for evaluating LLMs and GenAI applications. It provides evaluation capabilities including scorers, judges, and detailed tracing to help you understand and improve model performance. Weave integrates with W&B Models so you can evaluate models stored in W&B Registry.

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/weave/evals.png" alt="Weave evaluation dashboard showing model performance metrics and traces"  />
</Frame>

### Key features for model evaluation

Weave provides the following capabilities for model evaluation:

* **Scorers and judges**: Pre-built and custom evaluation metrics for accuracy, relevance, coherence, and more.
* **Evaluation datasets**: Structured test sets with ground truth for systematic evaluation.
* **Model versioning**: Track and compare different versions of your models.
* **Detailed tracing**: Debug model behavior with complete input/output traces.
* **Cost tracking**: Monitor API costs and token usage across evaluations.

> ### Evaluate a model from Registry

Reviewer 2: Proposed title doesn't make sense. Also, the product name is "W&B Registry".

> Download a model from Registry and evaluate it using Weave:

Reviewer 2: Full product name is W&B Registry.

# Initialize Weave
weave.init("your-entity/your-project")

> # Define a ChatModel that loads from Registry

Reviewer 2: Wrong

class ChatModel(weave.Model):
    model_name: str
    
    def model_post_init(self, __context):

>         # Download model from Registry

Reviewer 2: Wrong

results = await evaluation.evaluate(model)
```

### Integrate Weave evaluations with Models

To connect Weave evaluation results with the models and runs you track in W&B, use the integration workflow described next.

The [Models and Weave Integration Demo](/weave/cookbooks/Models_and_Weave_Integration_Demo) shows the complete workflow for:

> 1. **Load models from Registry**: Download fine-tuned models stored in Registry.

Reviewer 2: Incorrect product name, reference

2. **Create evaluation pipelines**: Build evaluations with custom scorers.
3. **Log results back to W&B**: Connect evaluation metrics to your model runs.
4. **Version evaluated models**: Save improved models back to the Registry.

> Log evaluation results to both Weave and Models:

Reviewer 2: Same

```python
# Run evaluation with W&B tracking
with weave.attributes({"wandb-run-id": wandb.run.id}):
    summary, call = await evaluation.evaluate.call(evaluation, model)

> # Log metrics to Models

Reviewer 2: Same

### Integrate Weave evaluations with W&B Models

To connect Weave evaluation results with the models and runs you track in W&B, use the integration workflow described next.

The [Models and Weave Integration Demo](/weave/cookbooks/Models_and_Weave_Integration_Demo) shows the complete workflow for:

> 1. **Load models from Registry**: Download fine-tuned models stored in W&B Models Registry.

Reviewer: I won't call out additional places to fix
```suggestion
1. **Load models from Registry**: Download fine-tuned models stored in Registry.
```

Author: Changed to "stored in Registry"; also scrubbed the remaining "W&B Models"/"W&B Registry" mentions across the page (prose and code comments).

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

2. **Create evaluation pipelines**: Build evaluations with custom scorers.
3. **Log results back to W&B**: Connect evaluation metrics to your model runs.
4. **Version evaluated models**: Save improved models back to the Registry.

> Log evaluation results to both Weave and W&B Models:

Author: ```suggestion
Log evaluation results to both Weave and Models:
```

> Log evaluation results to both Weave and W&B Models:

Reviewer: This must not be the first mention of Models so drop W&B.

Author: Dropped "W&B": now "both Weave and Models"; also updated the "Integrate Weave evaluations with Models" heading.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> ### Next steps

Reviewer: The nesting depth here makes me wonder if this page should be split up into at least two. Maybe the second page starts around line 137.

Author: Agreed the nesting is deep. I have left the page split as a follow-up rather than doing it in this style pass, since a split needs a new page plus nav and redirect updates. Happy to open a separate PR for it if you want — leaving this thread open for your call.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

For more information, see the following:

* [Complete Weave evaluation tutorial](/weave/tutorial-eval/)
* [Models and Weave integration example](/weave/cookbooks/Models_and_Weave_Integration_Demo)

> ## Evaluate models with Tables

Reviewer 2: Product name is W&B Tables

> W&B Tables let you log structured predictions and inspect them interactively in the UI. Use Tables to:

Reviewer 2: Refer to W&B App or W&B UI (Ask Matt for the latest)

```suggestion
W&B Tables let you log structured predictions and inspect them interactively in the W&B UI. Use Tables to:
```

> W&B Tables let you log structured predictions and inspect them interactively in the UI. Use W&B Tables to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W&B Tables let you log structured predictions and inspect them interactively in the UI. Use Tables to:
```

Author: Changed to "Use Tables to:".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

### Interactive analysis in the W&B UI

> After you log your tables, the W&B UI provides several ways to explore the results. You can:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you log a table, you can use the W&B UI to explore the results. You can:
```
